Sometimes product managers, get to focus on their particular product.
They forget to pull back and think more broadly about their customers desires.
When looking at how a customer uses our product,
product managers should consider the ultimate goal of the product in the user's life.
Customers don't buy a product for the sake of the product.
Instead, they buy a solution to a problem.
As US marketing expert [inaudible] ,
famously declared on why people buy a quarter-inch drill bits.
They don't want quarter-inch bits,
they want quarter-inch holes.
The jobs to be done framework pushes product managers and
designers to consider what jobs people are hiring their product to do.
This job goes beyond the simple actions a user takes,
and instead examines the motivations and goals a customer is trying to achieve.
Consider a purchasers of a lawnmower.
If you were to ask a lawnmower user the reason for the purchase,
at first, they might say that the purchase was made to cut the grass.
If that is a goal as a product manager,
you might work to create a lawnmower that cuts grass faster for cheaper.
But cutting the grass,
may not be the final goal of a lawn mowing customer.
By digging deeper, product managers could discover
the desired future of a lawnmower user to keep their grass low and beautiful.
Perhaps at an emotional level,
low and beautiful grass allows
a lawnmower user to show off to his neighbors and feel proud.
By focusing on the job to be done,
a product manager can think more broadly and may discover
different solutions that solve a customer's needs in a better way.
In this example, a product that could solve
the same job of keeping the grass low and beautiful,
is breeding a new type of grass that never grows above a certain height.
By using the jobs to be done framework when
conducting research in iterating on a product's design,
product managers will learn more about the challenges
their user space and the future desired by their customers.
This information allows product managers to seek and consider more innovative solutions.
When thinking about jobs to be done,
there are three types of jobs.
A job executor, the person actually using your product is trying to accomplish.
First, the job executor is trying to accomplish the core functional job.
This is the direct result that the job executor is trying to
achieve by using a product such as getting a quarter-inch hole or,
as in our earlier lawnmower example,
keeping grass low and trimmed.
For another example, imagine talking to the user of a tea kettle.
At first, such a customer might say
the core functional job they are trying to achieve is to heat water.
However, the true core functional job is to make a warm beverage to drink,
since that is the actual reason the customer is using the tea kettle product.
A job executor might also be accomplishing related tasks,
which are jobs done either before, during,
or following the execution of the core functional job.
By understanding related jobs,
a product manager can find opportunities to add additional features to
their product that help
a customer accomplish related jobs at the same time as the functional job.
When considering our lawnmower example,
our related job might be keeping grass green.
Often after cutting the grass,
many users of a lawnmower might water
the lawn with the goal of keeping the grass healthy and green.
Finally, a job executor is fulfilling an emotional job,
which is how the job executor wants to feel or
be perceived after finishing the core functional job.
For example, for some users,
a lawnmower might be fulfilling the emotional job of impressing the neighbors.
For other users, the emotional job might be feeling proud
because the freshly cut line gives the children a nice place to play.